---
layout: page
title: "MA 227 Standard C05"
description: "Multivariable Calculus"
---

At the end of the course, each student should be able to...

- **C05: MultivarCalc.**
Compute and apply the partial derivatives, gradient, and directional
derivatives of a multivariable real-valued function.

---

## C05. Multivariable Calculus

- The limit \\(\lim_{P\to P_0} f(P)=L\\) states that as points closed to
  \\(P_0\\) are plugged into \\(f(P)\\), the value of \\(f(P)\\) approaches
  \\(L\\).
    - Continuous functions satisfy \\(\lim_{P\to P_0} f(P)=f(P_0)\\)
      for all points \\(P_0\\) in their domain.
- The partial derivative of a function with respect to a variable describes
  the rate of change of the function as only that variable changes
  (so all other variables stay constant).
    - For example, the partial derivative with respect to y is defined by
      \\(\frac{\partial f}{\partial y}=f_y=
      \lim_{\Delta y\to0}\frac{f(x,y+\Delta y,z)-f(x,y,z)}{\Delta y}\\).
    - Since other variables are held constant, computing partial derivatives
      is the same as computing single-variable derivatives with respect to
      only the appropriate variable.
- Second (and higher) order partial derivatives may also be considered.
    - Such derivatives are denoted by
      \\(\frac{\partial^2 f}{\partial y\partial x}=f_{xy}\\). In this example,
      the derivative with respect to \\(x\\) is taken first, then \\(y\\).
    - The Mixed Derivative Theorem states that for sufficiently nice
      functions, \\(f_{xy}=f_{yx}\\) for all variables \\(x,y\\).
- The gradient vector collects all partial derivatives of a multivariable
  function.
    - For \\(f(x,y,z)\\), the gradient vector is
      \\(\nabla f=\\<f_x,f_y,f_z\\>\\).
- The directional derivative describes the rate of change of the function
  as all variables are changed along a line given by a specified unit vector.
    - The directional derivative with respect to \\(\vect u\\) is given by
      \\(f_{\vect u}=
      \lim_{\Delta s\to0}\frac{f(P+\Delta s\vect u)-f(P)}{\Delta s}\\).
    - For three variables, this expands to
      \\(f_{\vect u}=
      \lim_{\Delta s\to0}\frac{f(x+su_x,y+su_y,z+su_z)-f(x,y,z)}{\Delta s}\\).
    - For sufficiently nice functions,
      \\(f_{\vect u}=\nabla f \cdot\vect u\\).
    - Note, for example, \\(f_{\vecj}=f_y\\).
    - Thus \\(\\|\nabla f\\|\\) is the maximal value of the
      directional derivative, acheived with
      \\(\vect u=\frac{\nabla f}{\\|\nabla f\\|}\\).
    - Other notations include \\(\left(\frac{df}{ds}\right)\_{\vect u}\\)
      and \\(D_{\vect u}f\\).

---

### Textbook References

- University Calculus: Early Transcendentals (3rd Ed)
    - 13.3 (exercises 1-20, 23-38, 41-54)
    - 13.5 (exercises 1-24)
