---
layout: page
title: "MA 227 Standard C07"
description: "Double Integrals"
---

At the end of the course, each student should be able to...

- **C07: DoubleInt.**
Compute and apply double integrals.

---

## C07. Double Integrals

- Just as a single integral measures the area under a curve, a double
  integral measures the volume under a surface.
    - Let \\(\iint_R f(x,y)\,dA\\) be the volume of the solid above the
      region \\(R\\) in the \\(xy\\) plane and below the surface \\(z=f(x,y)\\),
      minus the volume of the solid below the region \\(R\\) in the \\(xy\\)
      plane and above the surface \\(z=f(x,y)\\). This volume above minus
      volume below is called the net volume.
    - It follows that \\(\iint_R f(x,y)\,dA=\int_a^b A(x)\,dx\\) where
      \\(A(x)\\) is the net area of the cross-section at each \\(x\\)-value
      and \\(a,b\\) are the leftmost and rightmost \\(x\\)-values of the region.
      Similarly, \\(\iint_R f(x,y)\,dA=\int_c^d A(y)\,dy\\) for the
      bottommost/topmost \\(y\\)-values \\(c,d\\).
    - Also, \\(A(x)=\int_{g(x)}^{h(x)}f(x,y)\,dy\\) where \\(g(x)\\) is the
      bottom curve of the region and \\(h(x)\\) is the top curve of the
      region. Similarly, \\(A(y)=\int_{g(y)}^{h(y)}f(x,y)\,dx\\) for the
      left/right curves \\(g(y),h(y)\\).
    - Thus \\(\iint_R f(x,y)\,dA=\int_a^b[\int_{g(x)}^{h(x)}f(x,y)\,dy]\,dx\\)
      and \\(\iint_R f(x,y)\,dA=\int_c^d [\int_{g(y)}^{h(y)}f(x,y)\,dx]\,dy\\).
      These nested definite integrals are called iterated integrals.
- Several properties of double integrals are easily proven.
    - \\(\iint_R cf\,dA=c\iint_R f\,dA\\).
    - \\(\iint_R (f\pm g)\,dA= \iint_R f\,dA \pm \iint_R g\,dA\\).
    - \\(f\leq g\\) implies \\(\iint_R f\,dA\leq\iint_R g\,dA\\).
    - \\(\\iint_{R+S} f\,dA = \iint_R f\,dA + \iint_S f\,dA\\).
- The order of integration may be reversed by reinterpreting the region
  of integration.
    - When \\(R=[a,b]\times[c,d]\\) is a rectangle,
      \\(
      \iint_R f(x,y)\,dA=
      \int_a^b\int_c^d f(x,y)\,dy\,dx=
      \int_c^d\int_a^b f(x,y)\,dx\,dy
      \\).
    - Otherwise, the bounds may only be switched by sketching and
      reinterpreting the region of integration, considering
      top/bottom curves rather than left/right curves (or vice versa).

---

### Textbook References

- University Calculus: Early Transcendentals (3rd Ed)
    - 14.1 (exercises 1-30)
    - 14.2 (exercises 19-28, 33-54)
