---
layout: page
title: "MA 227 Standard C10"
description: "Vector Fields"
---

At the end of the course, each student should be able to...

- **C10: VectField.**
  Analyze vector fields, including computing curl and divergence.

---

## C10. Vector Fields

- A vector field \\(\vect F=\\<M,N,P\\>\\) is a function of \\(n\\) variables
  that yields a vector of dimension \\(n\\).
    - Vector fields are sketched by choosing several points \\(P\\) and
      plotting the vectors \\(\vect F(P)\\) starting from each point.
    - The gradient vector field \\(\nabla f\\) represents the change
      of the function \\(f\\) at each point.  If \\(f\\) is temperature,
      then \\(\nabla f\\) is heat flux.
- The nabla operator \\(\nabla=\\<\frac{\partial}{\partial x},
  \frac{\partial}{\partial y},\frac{\partial}{\partial z}\\>\\)
  gives a convenient shorthand for computing certain derivative operations.
    - The gradient vector field is the scalar product of \\(\nabla\\)
      with the function \\(f\\).
- The rotations of a vector field are given by curl.
    - Each component of \\(\curl \vect F = \nabla\times\vect F =
      \\<P_y-N_z,M_z-P_x,N_x-M_y\\>\\) describes the counter-clockwise
      rotation of the field around the \\(\veci,\vecj,\veck\\) vectors.
    - \\((\curl\vect F)\cdot \vect u\\) gives the rotation of the field
      around the unit vector \\(\vect u\\).
- The expansion of a vector field is given by divergence.
    - The value \\(\dv \vect F=\nabla\cdot\vect F =M_x+N_y+P_z\\)
      sums up how each component of \\(\vect F\\) grows as each coordinate
      is increased.


---

### Textbook References

- University Calculus: Early Transcendentals (3rd Ed)
    - 15.2, 15.6, 15.7

### Exercises

Find the curl and divergence of each of the following vector fields,
then find the value of curl and divergence at the given point.

1. \\(\vect F=\\<x,y,z\\>\\) at the origin.
2. \\(\vect F=\\<z^2-y^2,x^2-z^2,y^2-x^2\\>\\) at \\(\\<1,1,1\\>\\)
3. TODO

### Solutions

1.  \\(\curl \vect F=\vect 0\\), so \\(\curl \vect F=\vect 0\\) at the origin.
    \\(\dv \vect F=3\\), so \\(\dv \vect F=3\\) at the origin.
2.  \\(\curl \vect F=\\<2y+2z,2z+2x,2x+2y\\>\\), so
    \\(\curl \vect F=\\<4,4,4\\>\\) at \\(\\<1,1,1\\>\\).
    \\(\dv \vect F=0\\), so \\(\dv \vect F=0\\) at the origin.
3.  TODO
