---
layout: page
title: "MA 227 Standard S08"
description: "Transformations of Variables"
---

At the end of the course, each student should be able to...

- **S08: TransVar.**
   Compute and apply a transformation of variables.

---

## S08: Transformations of Variables

- A transformation of variables is a function \\(\\vect T(u,v)=\\<x,y\\>\\)
  that converts vectors \\(\\<u,v\\>\\) in the \\(uv\\) plane into vectors
  \\(\\<x,y\\>\\) in the \\(xy\\) plane.
    - A transformation is called affine if it preserves parallelograms.
    - All affine transformations are of the form
      \\(\\vect T(u,v)=\\<a_1u+b_1v+c_1,a_2u+b_2v+c_2\\>\\).
    - To find a transformation from the unit square in the \\(uv\\) plane
      to a parallelogram,
      the values of \\(a,b,c\\) may be calculated by setting each of
      \\(\vect T(0,0),\vect T(1,0), \vect T(1,1), \vect T(0,1)\\) to each
      of its corners.
    - To find a transformation from the unit triangle in the \\(uv\\) plane
      to a parallelogram,
      the values of \\(a,b,c\\) may be calculated by setting each of
      \\(\vect T(0,0),\vect T(1,0), \vect T(1,1)\\) to each
      of its corners.
- Affine transformations scale
  areas by a factor of \\(\detTwo{a_1}{b_1}{a_2}{b_2}\\)
  (where this value is
  negative when the transformation reflects orientation). This generalizes to
  the Jacobian \\(\frac{\partial\vect T}{\partial\\<u,v\\>}=\detTwo
  {\frac{\partial x}{\partial u}}{\frac{\partial x}{\partial v}}
  {\frac{\partial y}{\partial u}}{\frac{\partial y}{\partial v}}\\) for
  more arbitrary transformations.
    - It follows that if the transformation \\(\vect T(u,v)\\) transforms
      the region \\(G\\) in the \\(uv\\) plane into the region \\(R\\)
      in the \\(xy\\) plane, then
      \\(\iint_R f(x,y)\,dA=\iint_G
      f(\vect T(u,v))\|\frac{\partial\vect T}{\partial\\<u,v\\>}\|\,dA\\).
- Similarly for 3D transformations \\(\\vect T(u,v,w)=\\<x,y,z\\>\\) sending
  \\(H\\) to \\(D\\), it may be shown that
  \\(\iiint_D f(x,y,z)\,dV=\iiint_H
  f(\vect T(u,v,w))\|\frac{\partial\vect T}{\partial\\<u,v,w\\>}\|\,dV\\)
  where  \\(\frac{\partial\vect T}{\partial\\<u,v,w\\>}=\detThree
  {\frac{\partial x}{\partial u}}{\frac{\partial x}{\partial v}}
  {\frac{\partial x}{\partial w}}
  {\frac{\partial y}{\partial u}}{\frac{\partial y}{\partial v}}
  {\frac{\partial y}{\partial w}}
  {\frac{\partial z}{\partial u}}{\frac{\partial z}{\partial v}}
  {\frac{\partial z}{\partial w}}\\).


---

### Textbook References

- University Calculus: Early Transcendentals (3rd Ed)
    - 14.8

### Practice Exercises

Let the unit square have vertices \\(\\<0,0\\>\\), \\(\\<1,0\\>\\),
\\(\\<1,1\\>\\), and \\(\\<0,1\\>\\).
Let the unit triangle have vertices \\(\\<0,0\\>\\), \\(\\<1,0\\>\\),
and \\(\\<1,1\\>\\).

1. Find a transformation from either the unit square or unit triangle in the
  \\(uv\\) plane into the given region \\(R\\) in the \\(xy\\) plane.
    - \\(R\\): the parallelogram bounded by \\(y=3x+1\\),
      \\(y=3x-3\\), \\(y=x-3\\) \\(y=x+1\\)
    - \\(R\\): the triangle bounded by \\(y=x\\), \\(y=2x\\), \\(y=6-x\\)
    - \\(R\\): the square with vertices \\(\\<2,1\\>\\), \\(\\<-2,3\\>\\),
      \\(\\<0,7\\>\\), \\(\\<4,5\\>\\)
    - \\(R\\): the triangle with vertices \\(\\<0,-2\\>\\) \\(\\<-1,1\\>\\),
      \\(\\<1,3\\>\\)
2. Evaluate the double integral with variables \\(x,y\\) using the given
  transformation from the \\(uv\\) plane.
    - \\(\iint_R (2y-4x)\,dA\\), \\(\vect{T}(u,v)=\\<u+v,2u-v+3\\>\\) from
      the unit square into the parallelogram \\(R\\) with vertices
      \\(\\<0,3\\>\\), \\(\\<1,5\\>\\), \\(\\<2,4\\>\\), \\(\\<1,2\\>\\).
    - \\(\iint_R (x+y)(x-y-2)\,dA\\), \\(\vect{T}(u,v)=\\<4-u-v,v-u+2\\>\\) from
      unit triangle into the triangle \\(R\\) with vertices \\(\\<4,2\\>\\),
      \\(\\<3,1\\>\\), \\(\\<2,2\\>\\).
    - \\(\iint_R (x+y)e^{x^2-y^2}\,dA\\), \\(\vect{T}(u,v)=\\<u+2v,u-2v\\>\\)
      from unit square into the rectangle \\(R\\) bounded by \\(y=x\\), \\(y=x-4\\), \\(y=-x\\), \\(y=2-x\\).
    - \\(\iint_R \cos(e^x)\,dA\\),
      \\(\vect{T}(u,v)=\\<\ln (u+v+1),v\\>\\)
      from unit triangle into the region \\(R\\) bounded by \\(y=0\\),
      \\(y=e^x-2\\), \\(y=\frac{e^x-1}{2}\\).

### Solutions

1. Find the transformation (solutions are not unique):
    - \\(\vect T(u,v)=\\<2u+2v-2,2u+6v-5\\>\\)
    - \\(\vect T(u,v)=\\<3u-v,3u+v\\>\\)
    - \\(\vect T(u,v)=\\<4u+2v-2,-2u+4v+3\\>\\)
    - \\(\vect T(u,v)=\\<u+v-1,-3u+5v+1\\>\\)
2. Evaluate the integral:
    - \\(6\\)
    - \\(\frac{3}{2}\\)
    - \\(\frac{1}{32}(e^8-9)\\)
    - \\(-\frac{1}{2}\cos(3)+\cos(2)-\frac{1}{2}\cos(1)\\)
